Fixed README of the multiple-notification's branch (#3)
jlvandenhout/iota-streams-experience: succeeding/notifications/README.md

# Notifications

> **This tutorial guides us through the process of building a notification service to notify Recipients using the Streams Channels protocol and the Tangle. At the end of the tutorial we will have an Publisher, capable of announcing a Channel and sending notifications to it, and a Recipient (or more), capable of listening to a Channel and receiving notifications sent in the channel from the Publisher.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**This tutorial guides us through the process of building a notification service to notify Recipients using the Streams Channels protocol and the Tangle. At the end of the tutorial we will have a Publisher, capable of announcing a Channel and publishing notifications to it, and one or more Recipients, capable of receiving notifications published to the Channel by the Publisher.**
```

3. In `lib.rs` list all the functionality we will be using in the following steps.

    ```rust
    use iota_streams::{
        app::transport::tangle::{
            client::Client,
            PAYLOAD_BYTES,
        },
        app_channels::api::tangle::{
            Author,
            Address,
            Bytes,
            Subscriber,
            MessageContent,
        },
    };
    ```

    Now we have all the dependencies and functionality listed, we're ready to start coding. Our project should now look like this:

    ```
    src/
        lib.rs
    Cargo.toml
    ```

## Step 2. Announce the Channel 

> In this step, we write some functions in the `lib.rs` file for announcing a new Channel which Recipients can listen to in order to receive notifications sent to the channel by the Publisher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this step, we write some functions in the `lib.rs` file for announcing a new Channel which Recipients can listen to in order to receive notifications published to the Channel by the Publisher.
```

> 1. In the `lib.rs` file, create a struct called `Publisher` that inherits from `Author`

Reviewer: Rust has no concept of inheritance and this tutorial is also meant to be an introduction to Rust, so lets not mention it here and rather talk about [encapsulation](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/book/ch17-01-what-is-oo.html#encapsulation-that-hides-implementation-details) and exposing interfaces. Maybe something like this is more appropriate:

```suggestion
1. In the `lib.rs` file, create a struct called `Publisher` that encapsulates the `Author` interface. We will use this to build the functions we want our Publisher to expose.
```

    ```rust
    pub struct Publisher {
        inner: Author<Client>,
    }
    ```

> 2. In the `lib.rs` file, create an implementations of the struct `Publisher`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the `lib.rs` file, create an implementation block for the `Publisher` struct.
```

    ```rust
    impl Publisher {

    }
    ```

> 3. In the implementation create a new Publisher starting from the seed chosen from him and by connecting to the IOTA test network through a public node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the implementation block provide a way to create a new Publisher from a provided seed and connect it to the IOTA Testnet through a public node.
```

    ```rust
        pub fn new(seed: &String) -> Self {
            Self {
                inner: Author::new(
                    seed,
                    "utf-8",
                    PAYLOAD_BYTES,
                    false,
                    Client::new_from_url("https://api.lb-0.testnet.chrysalis2.com")
                )
            }
        }
    ```

> 4. Still in the implementation of the Publisher create a function called `announce` that announce the Channel and return the Application Instance and Message ID to share with Recipients, so they can listen to the Channel.

Reviewer: We already let the reader know we are in the implementation block in the previous step, I would say that's enough so we don't have to repeat ourselves for brevity.

```suggestion
4. Create a function to announce the Channel and return the Application Instance and Message ID to share with Recipients, so they can listen to the Channel.
```

    ```rust
        /// Announce the Channel and return the Application Instance and Message ID to
        /// share with Recipients, so they can listen to the Channel.
        pub async fn announce(&mut self) -> (String, String) {
            let link = self.inner
                .send_announce()
                .await
                .expect("Failed to announce the Channel");

            (link.appinst.to_string(), link.msgid.to_string())
        }
    ```

    As a Publisher, we must send these Link details (Application Instance and Message ID) to any Recipient who wants to receive our notifications. This can be done by any means. In this tutorial, we'll do this by passing them to the Recipient via command line arguments.

> ## Step 3. Send notifications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 3. Publish notifications
```

In this step, we write a function that permits the Publisher to publish notification messages to the Channel. The message will be signed and public to allow all Recipients to read it and verify that it was the Publisher who sent it.

> 1. Still in the implementation of the Publisher create a function called `publish` that takes the Link details and the notification to send.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the implementation block of the Publisher create a function called `publish` that takes the Link details and the notification to publish.
```

    ```rust
        /// Publish a notification to the Channel. This notification message is linked to
        /// a previous message, so Recipients are able to find it.
        pub async fn publish(
            &mut self,
            application_instance: &String,
            message_id: &String,
            notification: &String,
        ) -> String {

        }
    ```

2. In the `publish` function convert the Application Instance and Message ID to a Link to link the notification message to.

    ```rust
            let link = Address::from_str(application_instance,message_id)
                .expect("Failed to create the Link");
    ```

3. Convert the notification to bytes, as that is the only thing the Streams protocol cares about.

    ```rust
            let public_payload = Bytes(notification.as_bytes().to_vec());
            let masked_payload = Bytes("".as_bytes().to_vec());
    ```

    In this case we only use the public payload. The masked payload is used when we only want certain Recipients to be able to read the data. For that to work, we would first need to send a Keyload message.

> 4. Send the message, signed by the Publisher, using the Link and the payloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Send the message, signed by the Publisher, using the Link and the payloads and return the Message ID of the sent message so we can link to it later.
```

    ```rust
            let (link, _) = self.inner
                .send_signed_packet(&link, &public_payload, &masked_payload)
                .await
                .expect("Failed to publish the notification to the Channel");

            link.msgid.to_string()
    ```

## Step 4. Create the Publisher

> In this step, we will create the Publisher binary that uses the functions we just created to announce a Channel and send one or multiple notifications to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this step, we will create the Publisher binary that uses the functions we just created to announce a Channel and publish one or multiple notifications to it.
```

1. In the `src` folder, create a subfolder named `bin`. Any modules in this folder will automatically be compiled to separate binaries by Cargo. In this folder create a file called `publisher.rs`.

    Our project should now look like this:

    ```
    src/
        bin/
            publisher.rs
        lib.rs
    Cargo.toml
    ```

2. In `publisher.rs`, list the functionality we will be using.

    ```rust
    use std::io::BufRead;
    ```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Using `std::io::BufRead` here enables certain functions for our command line input that we will use later. This is called a Trait in Rust and you can read more about it [here](https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/book/ch10-02-traits.html).
```

3. Create an asynchronous main function using `tokio` and grab the seed from the command line.

    ```rust
    #[tokio::main]
    async fn main() {
        // Get the Seed from the command line
        let args : Vec<String> = std::env::args().collect();
        let seed = &args[1];

    }
    ```

> 4. Create a Publisher by calling the "new" function of the "Publisher" struct contained in lib.rs file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Create a Publisher by calling the `new` function of the `Publisher` struct contained in lib.rs file.
```

    ```rust
        let mut publisher = notifications::Publisher::new(seed);
    ```

    As the Seed is the key to our Channel, it should always be kept a secret.

5. Now we that we have a Publisher, we are ready to announce the Channel 

    ```rust
        // Announce the Channel and get the Channel Address and Announcement Message ID
        let (application_instance, mut message_id) = publisher.announce().await;

    ```

> 6. We now print the command that each recipient will have to execute in order to listen on the channel that the publisher has just created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. We now print the command that each Recipient will have to execute in order to listen to the Channel the Publisher just created.
```

> NOTE: In a real scenario the Publisher must find an efficient and safe way to communicate Channel Address and Announcement Message ID to each recipient who intends to subscribe to the channel created by the Publisher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: In a real scenario the Publisher must find an efficient and safe way to communicate the Channel Address and Announcement Message ID to each Recipient who intends to listen to the Channel created by the Publisher.
```

    ```rust
        // Share the Channel Address and Announcement Message ID with the Recipient
        println!("Now open another terminal and run:");
        println!("cargo run --bin recipient {} {} <RANDOM_SEED>", application_instance, message_id);
        println!("Send a notification:");
    ```

> 6. Now that the Publisher has announced the Channel he can begin to publish notifications on this channel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Now that the Publisher has announced the Channel, let's provide a way to publish notifications from the command line to the Channel.
```

    ```rust
        // Send notifications
        for line in std::io::stdin().lock().lines() {
            let notification = line.expect("Unable to read the notification");

            message_id = publisher.publish(&application_instance, &message_id, &notification).await;
            println!("Send another notification:");
        }
    ```

> Now that the Publisher has announced the Channel, shared the Link details and sent one or more notifications, let's code the functionality for our Recipient to listen to the Channel and receive the notification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that the Publisher has announced the Channel, shared the Link details and is able to publish one or more notifications, let's implement the functionality for our Recipient to listen to the Channel and receive the notifications.
```

## Step 5. Listen to the Channel

> In this step, we write some functions that lets the Recipient listen to the Channel and so receiving notifications, using the Application Instance and Message ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this step, we write some functions to allow Recipients to listen to the Channel and receive notifications, using the Application Instance and Message ID.
```

> 1. In the `lib.rs` file, create a scruct called `Recipient` that inherits from `Subscriber`

Reviewer: Same as for the Publisher. There is no inheritance in Rust.

```suggestion
1. In the `lib.rs` file, create a struct called `Recipient` that encapsulates the `Subscriber` interface. Like with the Publisher we will use this to build the functions we want our Recipient to expose.
```

    ```rust
    pub struct Recipient {
        inner: Subscriber<Client>,
    }
    ```

> 2. In the `lib.rs` file, create an implementation of the struct `Recipient`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the `lib.rs` file, create an implementation block for the `Recipient` struct.
```

    ```rust
    impl Recipient {

    }
    ```

> 3. In the implementation create a Recipient starting from a seed chosen from him and by connecting to the IOTA test network through a public node .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the implementation block provide a way to create a new Recipient from a provided seed and connect it to the IOTA Testnet through a public node.
```

    ```rust
        pub fn new(seed: &String) -> Self {
            Self {
                inner: Subscriber::new(
                    seed,
                    "utf-8",
                    PAYLOAD_BYTES,
                    false,
                    Client::new_from_url("https://api.lb-0.testnet.chrysalis2.com"),
                )
            }
        }
    ```

> 4. Create a function that listen to a Channel using the Application Instance and Message ID shared by the Publisher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Create a function to listen to a Channel using the Application Instance and Message ID shared by the Publisher.
```

    ```rust
        /// Listen to a Channel using the Application Instance and Message ID
        /// shared by the Publisher.
        pub async fn listen(
            &mut self,
            application_instance: &String,
            announcement_id: &String,
        ) {

        }
    ```

5. Convert the Application Instance and Message ID to a Link to listen to.

    ```rust
            let announcement_link = Address::from_str(&application_instance,&announcement_id)
                .expect("Failed to create the Link");
    ```

6. Listen to the Channel.

    ```rust
            self.inner
                .receive_announcement(&announcement_link)
                .await
                .expect("Failed to listen to the Channel");
    ```

## Step 6. Receive notifications
In this step, we write a function that receives notifications from the Channel. The messages will be verified and converted from bytes to plain text.

> 1. Still in the implementation of the Recipient create a function called `receive`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the implementation block of the Recipient create a function called `receive`.
```

    ```rust
        /// Receive any notifications sent by the Publisher to the Channel.
        pub async fn receive(&mut self) {
            
        }
    ```

> 2. Fetch continuosly if there are any messages pending for our Recipient.

Reviewer: It is not continuously fetching messages. It is one request to the IOTA Client to query new messages on the Tangle, which may return zero or more messages.

```suggestion
2. Fetch any pending messages for our Recipient.
```

    ```rust
            for message in self.inner.fetch_next_msgs().await {
                
            }
    ```

3. Check if any messages are received and, if so, convert the public payload to plain text and print.

    ```rust
                if let MessageContent::SignedPacket { pk: _, public_payload, masked_payload: _ } = message.body {
                    println!("{}", String::from_utf8(public_payload.0).unwrap());
                }
    ```

    Note that we are only interested in the Signed Packet messages for now. There are other messages types we could listen to, like Keyload messages.

## Step 7. Create the Recipient

> In this step, we will create the Recipient binary that uses the functions we just created to listen to a Channel and receive any notifications sent to it by the Publisher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this step, we will create the Recipient binary that uses the functions we just created to listen to a Channel and receive any notifications published to it by the Publisher.
```

    ```
    src/
        bin/
            publisher.rs
            recipient.rs
        lib.rs
    Cargo.toml
    ```

> 2. Create an asynchronous main function using `tokio` and grab respectively Application Instance, Announcement ID and recipient-seed from the command line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create an asynchronous main function using `tokio` and grab the Application Instance, Announcement ID and Recipient seed from the command line.
```

    ```rust
    #[tokio::main]
    async fn main() {
        // Get the Seed, Channel Address and Announcement Message ID from the command line
        let args : Vec<String> = std::env::args().collect();
        let application_instance = &args[1];
        let announcement_id = &args[2];
        let seed = &args[3];

    }
    ```

> 3. Create a Recipient by calling the "new" function of the "Recipient" struct contained in lib.rs file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Create a Recipient by calling the `new` function of the `Recipient` struct contained in lib.rs file.
```

    ```rust
        let mut recipient = notifications::Recipient::new(seed);

    ```

> 4. Now we are ready to listen the Channel 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Now we are ready to listen the Channel. To not overload our IOTA Client, let's query for pending notifications with an interval of a second.
```

    ```rust
        // Listen to the Channel using the Channel Address and Announcement Message ID
        recipient.listen(application_instance, announcement_id).await;

        // Receive notifications from the Channel
        let mut interval = tokio::time::interval(tokio::time::Duration::from_secs(1));
        loop {
            interval.tick().await;
            recipient.receive().await;
        }
    ```

## Step 9. Run the scripts

> We now have an Publisher and a Recipient to create and consume our notification service. From the root of this package use the following commands to run the Publisher and the Recipient:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We now have a Publisher and a Recipient to create and consume our notification service. From the root of this package use the following commands to run the Publisher and the Recipient:
```
